I won't get to finish my game?
Or it's just the celestial lights. We've been down this road before, Prince Zuko. I don't want you to get too excited over nothing. Please, sit. Why don't you enjoy a cup of calming jasmine tea?
I'm going to bed now. Yep. A man needs his rest. Prince Zuko, you need some sleep. Even if you're right and the Avatar is alive, you won't find him. Your father, grandfather, and great-grandfather all tried and failed.
No! Power in firebending comes from the breath. Not the muscles. The breath becomes energy in the body. The energy extends past your limbs and becomes fire.
No, you are impatient. You have yet to master your basics. Drill it again!
Very well. But first I must finish my roast duck.
Hey, you mind taking this to his quarters for me?
Huh?
Good news for the Fire Lord. The nation's greatest threat is just a little kid.
You mean the Avatar?
Retired general.
Our ship is being repaired.
Yes, I will do that. It was incredible. What... did we crash or something?
Prince Zuko, show Commander Zhao your respect. We would be honored to join you. Do you have any ginseng tea? It's my favorite.
My fault entirely.
More tea please?
Prince Zuko, that's enough!
Prince Zuko, have you forgotten what happened last time you dueled a master?
Remember your firebending basics, Prince Zuko. They are your greatest weapons.
Basics, Zuko! Break his root!
No, Prince Zuko. Do not taint your victory.
So this is how the great Commander Zhao acts in defeat. Disgraceful.
Even in exile my nephew is more honorable than you. Thanks again for the tea. It was delicious.
Of course. I told you ginseng tea is my favorite.
Well, there is news, Prince Zuko, but you might not like it. Don't get too upset.
Okay, then... we have no idea where he is.
You really should open a window in here.
There have been multiple sightings of the Avatar, but he is impossible to track down.
Are you going to finish that?
Over here.
You look tired, Prince Zuko. Why don't you join me in these hot springs and soak away your troubles.
You should take your teacher's advice and relax a little. The temperature's just right. I heated it myself.
Very well.
Ahhhh!
Uh? Who's there?
A meadow vole! I should have known. You startled me, little one. Ehh, seems I've dozed off and missed my nephew's deadline, but it was a very sweet nap.
Where are you taking me?
Right. But where, specifically?
Ah! The great city of Ba-Sing-Se.
I acknowledged my defeat at Ba-Sing-Se! After 600 days away from home, my men were tired and I was tired, and I'm still tired.
Nothing. Actually, there is a bit of a problem. My old joints are feeling sore and achy and these shackles are too loose.
That's right. The cuffs are loose and they jangle around and bump my wrists. It would help me if you would tighten them so they wouldn't shake around so much.
Excellent form, Prince Zuko.
Uh, that's true, but you are clearly outmatched!
Sailing into Fire Nation waters... of all the foolish things you have done in your 16 years, Prince Zuko, this is the most foolish.
Have you completely forgotten that the Fire Lord banished you?!?!? (With a look of anguish and worry) What if you're caught?
You give him too much credit. My brother is not the understanding type.
Really, Prince Zuko, couldn't you shoot them down with something more fragrant?
Technically you are still in Earth Kingdom waters. Turn back now and they cannot arrest you.
Please Prince Zuko, if the Fire Nation captures you, there is nothing I can do. Do not follow the Avatar.
We're on a collision course!
Because he wants to follow you. He knows you'll lead him to the prize you're both after...the Avatar.
Hmmmm
Actually, someone did. I assure you it is a matter of utmost importance, Prince Zuko.
Even more urgent. It seems... I've lost my lotus tile.
For my Pai Sho game. Most people think the lotus tile insignificant, but it is essential for the unusual strategy that I employ.
See, you, like most people, underestimate its value. Just give me ten minutes to check the merchants at this port of call. Hopefully they'll have the lotus tile in stock and I can get on with my life!
I'm lucky to have such an understanding nephew.
I've checked all the shops on this pier. Not a lotus tile in the entire marketplace.
Quite the contrary. I always say the only thing better than finding something you were looking for, is finding something you weren't looking for at a great bargain!
For music night on the ship. Now, if we only had some woodwinds.
This place looks promising!
Ooo! That is handsome! Wouldn't it look magnificent in the galley?
Yeh, it kind of is.
Are you so busy fighting you cannot see your own ship has set sail?
It's no proverb.
Maybe it should be a proverb.
Hehe, Prince Zuko, you're really going to get a kick out of this. The missing lotus tile was in my sleeve the whole time!
There is a storm coming. A big one.
The storm is approaching from the north. I suggest we alter our course and head southwest.
Prince Zuko, consider the safety of the crew.
He doesn't mean that, he's just all worked up.
Lucky guess.
Easy now.
Enough! We are all a bit tired from being at sea so long. I'm sure after a bowl of noodles everyone will feel much better.
Do you really want to know?
It's ok. May I join you?
Try to understand, my nephew is a complicated young man. He has been through much...
Prince Zuko, what's wrong?
You're not missing anything, trust me. These meetings are dreadfully boring.
Very well. But you must promise not to speak. These old folks are a bit sensitive, you know.
Zuko was right, you see, but it was not his place to speak out, and there were... dire consequences.
After Zuko's outburst in the meeting, the Fire Lord became very angry with him. He said that Prince Zuko's challenge of the general was an act of complete disrespect, and there was only one way to resolve this...
That's right. Zuko looked upon the old general he had insulted and declared that he was not afraid. But Zuko misunderstood. When he turned to face his opponent, he was surprised to see it was not the General. Zuko had spoken out against a general's plan, but by doing so in the Fire Lord's war room, it was the Fire Lord whom he had disrespected. Zuko would have to duel his own father.
When Prince Zuko saw that it was his father who had come to duel him, he begged for mercy...
I looked away.
It was no accident. After the duel, the Fire Lord said that by refusing to fight, Zuko had shown shameful weakness. As punishment he was banished and sent to capture the Avatar. Only then could he return with his honor.
Things will never return to normal. But the important thing is, the Avatar gives Zuko hope.
Look!
Then we must head directly into the eye of the storm.
Your apology is accepted.
Perhaps a sporting game of Pai Sho!
Zhao has been promoted? Well, good for him!
Excellent! (He leans forward and gathers all the chips on the table)ake the pot. But, you're all improving. I'm certain you will win if we play again.
Is everything okay? It's been almost an hour and you haven't given the men an order.
Don't give up hope yet. You can still find the Avatar before Zhao.
Where have you been, Prince Zuko? You missed music night! Lieutenant Jee sang a stirring love song.
Ahh! See, Prince Zuko, a moment of quiet is good for your mental well being.
Well, I'm impressed.
Very impressed.
He means no offense! I'm sure you bathe regularly.
You got it!
At my age there is really only one big surprise left, and I'd just as soon leave it a mystery.
Shh!
Winter, spring, summer and fall. Wi/bnter and spring, summer and fall. Four seasons, four loves. Four seasons, four loves.
No, it's about our plans. There's a bit of a problem.
I'm afraid so. He's taking everyone. Even the cook!
Just rumors. I don't think he is real.
The crew wanted me to wish you safe travels.
It's a lovely night for a walk. Why don't you join me? It would clear your head. Or, just stay in your room and sit in the dark. Whatever makes you happy.
Zuko!
The Fire Lord will not be pleased he learns who was responsible.
Yes... pirates! We had a run in with them awhile back.
They wanted revenge.
Yes, I accept. It will be an honor to serve as your general. To the Fire Nation!
Our plan is working perfectly. Zhao doesn't suspect a thing.
No nephew of mine is going to stow away on a ship without some backup!
Someone's coming! Stay hidden until we get to the North Pole and the Avatar will be yours! Good luck!
I don't need to remind you we have a time limit.
Remove the moon!? How?
What?
Zhao, the Spirits are not to be trifled with!
I'm no traitor, Zhao, the Fire Nation needs the moon too. We all depend on the balance.
Whatever you do to that spirit I'll unleash on you ten-fold! LET IT GO, NOW!
You have been touched by the Moon Spirit. Some of its life is in you!
I'm surprised, Prince Zuko, surprised that you are not at this moment trying to capture the Avatar.
Then you should rest. A man needs his rest.
Aaahhh... this is what I've been missing. Who knew floating on a piece of driftwood for three weeks with no food or water and sea vultures waiting to pluck out your liver could make one so tense?
I see. It's the anniversary, isn't it?
Erg... that came out wrong, didn't it?
Look at these magnificent shells! I'll enjoy these keepsakes for years to come.
To what do we owe this honor?
I'm sure your brother just needs a moment to—
It is unbelievable. I have never known my brother to regret anything.
I care about you. And if Ozai wants you back... well, I think it may not be for the reasons you imagine.
Zuko, I only meant that in our family things are not always what they seem.
Wait! Don't leave without me!
Family sticks together, right?
Zuko! Let's go!
I think we're safe here.
You're looking at the rare white dragon bush. Its leaves make a tea so delicious it's heartbreaking! That, or it's the white jade bush, which is poisonous.
Delectable tea? Or deadly poison?
Zuko, remember that plant that I thought might be tea?
I did. And it wasn't.
When the rash spreads to my throat, I will stop breathing. But look what I found! These are bacui berries, known to cure the poison of the white jade plant. That, or macahoni berries that cause blindness.
But where are we going to go? We're enemies of the Earth Kingdom, and fugitives from the Fire Nation.
But if the Fire Nation discovers us, we'll be turned over to Azula.
Heh heh heh. Whoops!
Yes, but my nephew was named after his father, so we just call him Junior.
Where do you live, exactly?
Thank you for the duck. It was excellent.
Much practice. Junior, where are your manners? You need to thank these nice people.
What are you doing? These people just showed you great kindness.
Spare coins for weary travelers?
They will - if you ask nicely.
Spare change for a hungry old man?
The coin is appreciated, but not as much as your smile.
Not professional, anyway.
It's a long, long way to Ba-Sing-Se, but the girls in the city they look soo prett-ay!
And they kiss so sweet that you've really got to meet the girls from Ba-Sing-Se!
Such a kind man!
Where did you get these?
Hmm... Mmmm!
To be honest with you, the best tea tastes delicious whether it comes in a porcelain pot or a tin cup. I know we've had some difficult times lately. We've had to struggle just to get by. But it's nothing to be ashamed of. There is a simple honor in poverty.
Zuko... Even if you did capture the Avatar, I'm not so sure it would solve our problems. Not now.
No, Zuko! You must never give in to despair. Allow yourself to slip down that road and you surrender to your lowest instincts. In the darkest times, hope is something you give yourself. That is the meaning of inner strength.
You did? Good, good.
Wait!
If the city is as magnificent as its wall, Ba Sing Se must be something to behold.
Ohhh... That really hurt my tailbone.
Here is your tea. You seem a little too young to be traveling alone.
Perhaps I am.
I wasn't thinking that.
I poured your tea because I wanted to and for no other reason.
You sound like my nephew. Always thinking you need to do things on your own without anyone's support. There is nothing wrong with letting people who love you help you.
I've been tracking him, actually.
Yes, a little bit. His life has recently changed and he's going through very difficult times. He is trying to figure out who he is and he went away.
I know he doesn't want me around right now, but, if he needs me, I'll be there.
My pleasure. Sharing tea with a fascinating stranger is one of life's true delights.
I'm glad.
Get up!
My beloved Lu Ten, I will see you again.
Somehow, that's not so surprising.
Mmm, good. That was very, uhh... bracing!
No, she's crazy and she needs to go down.
Lightning is a pure expression of firebending, without aggression. It is not fueled by rage or emotion the way other firebending is. Some call lightning the cold-blooded fire. It is precise and deadly, like Azula. To perform the technique requires peace of mind.
Oh yeah, good point! I mean, yes.
There is energy all around us.
The energy is both yin and yang; positive energy and negative energy. Only a select few firebenders can separate these energies. This creates an imbalance. The energy wants to restore balance and in a moment the positive and negative energy come crashing back together. You provide release and guidance, creating lightning.
Remember, once you separate the energy, you do not command it. You are simply its humble guide. Breathe first.
I was afraid this might happen. You will not be able to master lightning until you have dealt with the turmoil inside you.
Zuko, you must let go of your feelings of shame if you want your anger to go away.
Prince Zuko, pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility is the only antidote to shame.
I have another idea. I will teach you a firebending move that even Azula doesn't know, because I made it up myself!
Fire is the element of power. The people of the Fire Nation have desire and will, and the energy and drive to achieve what they want. Earth is the element of substance. The people of the Earth Kingdom are diverse and strong. They are persistent and enduring. Air is the element of freedom. The Air Nomads detached themselves from worldly concerns and found peace and freedom. Also, they apparently had pretty good senses of humor!
It is the combination of the four elements in one person that makes the Avatar so powerful. But, it can make you more powerful too. You see, the technique I am about to teach you is one I learned by studying the waterbenders.
Waterbenders deal with the flow of energy. A waterbender lets their defense become their offense, turning their opponents' energy against them. I learned a way to do this with lightning.
If you let the energy in your own body flow, the lightning will follow it. (He points with his right arm at an angle into the air and points at it with his other hand.) You must create a pathway from your fingertips up your arm to your shoulder and down into your stomach. You direct it up again and out the other arm. The stomach detour is critical. You must not let the lightning pass through your heart or the damage could be deadly. You may wish to try a physical motion to get a feel for the pathway's flow. Like this. Now, are you focusing your energy Can you feel your own chi flowing in, down, up, and out?
Come on. You've got to feel the flow.
Excellent! You've got it!
What, are you crazy? Lightning is very dangerous.
But I'm not going to shoot lightning at you! If you are lucky, you will never have to use this technique at all.
No, please, don't stop for me!
Colonel Mongke! What a pleasant surprise!
Sure. Colonel Mongke and the Rough Riders are legendary. Each one is a different kind of weapons specialist. They are also a very capable singing group.
Would you like some tea first? I'd love some. How about you, Kachi? I make you as a jasmine man. Am I right?
It's nice to see old friends.
Hmm... Old friends that don't want to attack me...
So do we. Ah, this is interesting. I think I've found our friend.
I don't think this is a gamble.
May I have this game?
Those who do can always find a friend.
I always tried to tell you that Pai Sho is more than just a game.
He is. Just watch.
You must forgive my nephew. He is not an initiate and has little appreciation for the cryptic arts.
One who has eaten the fruit and tasted its mysteries.
I'm afraid it's members only. Wait out here.
Everything is taken care of. We're heading to Ba-Sing-Se.
We can hide in plain sight there. And it's the safest place in the world from the Fire Nation. Even I couldn't break through to the city.
Who would have thought, after all these years, I'd return to the scene of my greatest military disgrace...as a tourist
What sort of "king" is he eating like?
So, Smellerbee, that's an unusual name for a young man.
Oh, now I see! It's a beautiful name for a lovely girl!
It is a magnificent sight.
Once, when I was a different man.
That's very noble of you. I believe people can change their lives if they want to. I believe in second chances.
It's pronounced Moo-shee.
Uh, no no no. But may I just say that you're like a flower in bloom, your beauty intoxicating.
Oh! Jasmine, please. Blaugh! Ugh. Coldest tea in Ba Sing Se is more like it. What a disgrace!
Hey!
I know you're not supposed to cry over spilled tea, but... that's so sad.
What a handsome baby.
I just want our new place to look nice in case someone brings home a lady friend.
Life happens wherever you are, whether you make it or not. Now come on, I found us some new jobs, and we start this afternoon.
Uh, Does this possibly come in a larger size?
Eeow! This tea is nothing more than hot leaf juice!
How can a member of my own family say something so horrible? We'll have to make some major changes around here.
Would you like a pot of tea?
Sick of tea? That's like being sick of breathing!
I borrowed our neighbors, such kind people.
The secret ingredient is love.
Please son, you're confused. You don't know what you're doing!
This poor boy is confused. We're just simple refugees.
Oh ho ho. That's very sweet.
No, it is not a romantic picnic, but it is a special occasion. The moonflower likes partial shade.
Yeowch!
It is usually best to admit mistakes when they occur, and to seek to restore honor-
but not this time. Run!
What are you doing?
With that stance?
With a poor stance you are unbalanced, and you can be easily knocked over.
With a solid stance, you are a much more serious threat. Much better! But to tell you the truth, you do not look like the criminal type.
Of course!
While it is always best to believe in one's self, a little help from others can be a great blessing.
Happy Birthday my son. If only I could have helped you. Leaves from the vine, falling so slow.
Like fragile, tiny shells,
Drifting in the foam.
Little soldier boy, come marching home.
Brave soldier boy, comes marching home.
You're right Zuko. I've seen that girl in here quite a lot. Seems to me she has quite a little crush on you.
He'd love to!
How was your night, Prince Zuko?
Huh!
Uh, it's nothing. Go back to sleep.
Good tea is its own reward.
My own tea shop? This is a dream come true.
I even get to name the shop?
Did you hear nephew? This man wants to give us our own tea shop in the upper ring of the city.
So, I was thinking about names for my new tea shop. How bout the Jasmine Dragon? It's dramatic, poetic, has a nice ring to it.
We have a chance for a new life here. If you start stirring up trouble, we could lose all the good things that are happening for us.
There is nothing wrong with a life of peace and prosperity. I suggest you think about what it is that you want for your life, and why.
What that means is up to you. The Tea Weevil! No, that's stupid.
So, the Blue Spirit. I wonder who could be behind that mask?
I was just about to ask you the same thing. What do you plan to do now that you have found the Avatar's bison? Keep it locked in our new apartment? Should I go put on a pot of tea for him?
AND THEN WHAT?! You never think these things through! This is exactly what happened when you captured the Avatar at the North Pole! You had him, and then you had no where to go!
No!! If his friends hadn't found you, you would have frozen to death!
Is it your own destiny? Or is it a destiny someone else has tried to force on you?
I'm begging you Prince Zuko! It's time for you to look inward, and begin asking yourself the big questions. Who are you? And what do you want?
You did the right thing, nephew. Leave it behind.
You did the right thing, letting the Avatar's bison go free.
Zuko!
You're burning up. You have an intense fever. This will help cool you down.
Here's some clean water to drink. Stay under the blankets, and sweat this out.
You should know this is not a natural sickness. But that shouldn't stop you from enjoying tea.
You're critical decision, what you did beneath that lake...it was in such conflict with your image of yourself, that you are now at war within your own mind and body.
You're going through a metamorphosis, my nephew. It will not be a pleasant experience, but when you come out of it, you will be the beautiful Prince you were always meant to be.
It's jook. I'm sure you wouldn't like it.
Now that your fever is gone, you seem different somehow.
Who thought when we came to this city as refugees, that I'd end up owning my own tea shop. Follow your passion Zuko, and life will reward you.
I'm very thankful.
No, I'm thankful because you decided to share this special day with me. It means more than you know.
Yes! Let's make some tea!
I'm brewing as fast as I can!
I... I can't believe it.
Great news! We've been invited to serve tea to the Earth King!
Many times, I imagined myself here, at the threshold of the palace. But I always thought I would be here as a conqueror... instead, we are the Earth Kings personal guests, here to serve him tea. Destiny is a funny thing.
Maybe the Earth King overslept.
Did I ever tell you how I got the nickname the "Dragon of the West"?
It's more of a demonstration really.
Come on. You'll be fine.
I need your help.
May I come in?
She has captured my nephew as well.
I know how you must feel about my nephew. But believe me when I tell you there is good inside him.
I brought someone along who might be able to help us.
None taken.
The key to both is proper aging. What's on your mind?
Perfection and power are overrated. I think you were very wise to choose happiness and love.
I don't know the answer. Sometimes life is like this dark tunnel. You can't always see the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving...
You will come to a better place.
Zuko, it's time we talked. Go help your other friends. We'll catch up with you.
Why Uncle?
You are not the man you used to be, Zuko. You are stronger and wiser and freer than you have ever been. And now you have come to the crossroads of your destiny. It's time for you to choose. It's time for you to choose good!
The kind of redemption she offers is not for you.
Zuko, I am begging you, look into your heart and see what it is that you truly want.
You've got to get out of here! I'll hold them off as long as I can!
No... he wasn't.
You have more than one great-grandfather, Prince Zuko. Sozin was your father's grandfather. Your mother's grandfather was Avatar Roku.
Because understanding the struggle between your two great-grandfathers, can help you better understand the battle within yourself. Evil and good are always at war inside you, Zuko. It is your nature, your legacy. But there is a bright side. What happened generations ago can be resolved now... by you. Because of your legacy, you alone can cleanse the sins of our family and the fire nation. Born in you, along with all this strife, is the power to restore balance to the world.
This is a royal artifact. It's supposed to be worn by the crown prince.
Thank you, Ming. Ever since I was put in here, you have been very kind to me.
Thank you, Ming. Your little gestures of kindness had made my days in prison bearable. I think you should take the rest of the day off.
You don't look well. Maybe you should go home and rest.
Trust me. It is better that you are not here this afternoon.
What a stunning view.
You know, the Avatar hasn't been seen for a 100 years. The chances of finding him here are very slim.
Prince Zuko, it's only been a week since your banishment. You should take some time to heal and rest.
You know, Prince Zuko, destiny is a funny thing. You never know how things are going to work out. But if you keep an open mind and an open heart, I promise you will find your own destiny someday.
I was never angry with you. I was sad because I was afraid you lost your way.
But you found it again. And you did it by yourself. And I am so happy you found your way here.
Hmm...
No, Zuko. It won't turn out well.
Even if I did defeat Ozai, and I don't know that I could. It will be the wrong way to end the war. History would see it as just more senseless violence, a brother killing a brother to grab power. The only way for this war to end peacefully is for the Avatar to defeat the Fire Lord.
No. Someone new must take the throne. An idealist with a pure heart and unquestionable honour. It has to be you, Prince Zuko.
Yes, you have. You struggled, you suffered but you have always followed your own path, you restored your own honour. And only you can restore the honour of the Fire Nation.
Sozin's Comet is arriving and our destinies are upon us. Aang will face the Fire Lord. When I was a boy, I had a vision that I would one day take Ba Sing Se. Only now do I see that my destiny is to take it back from the Fire Nation so the Earth Kingdom can be free again.
Yes. Zuko, you must return to the Fire Nation so that when the Fire Lord falls, you can assume the throne and restore peace and order. But Azula will be there, waiting for you.
Not alone. You'll need help.
What do you think it is?
After I re-conquer Ba Sing Se, I'm going to re-conquer my tea shop and I'm going to play Pai Sho everyday.
Goodbye, everyone. Today, destiny is our friend. I know it.
Only once every hundred years can a firebender experience this kind of power.
Hey, my belly's not that big anymore, I've really trimmed down.